# Superstore-Net Margins
#### This project uses the Superstore dataset, Superstore is a fictional online retailer based in the United States. I was inspired to do this project after completing another project,<a href="https://github.com/TyRoberts/Superstore-Regional_Overview"> Superstore-Regional Overview</a>, using the same dataset. During the initial project I noticed that the company had a lot of transactions that were generating large losses. This led me to question the overall profitability of the company, so I decided to further explore the company’s profit margins and the underlying causes of these losses. 
#### I began my profit margin investigation by first determining whether profit margins were gross margins or net margins. The dataset contains no data on costs, therefore I had to establish whether the given profit was calculated using cost of goods sold (COGS) or all business expenses. After finding online retail industry averages for gross and net margin I decided it was most likely that the costs used to calculate profit accounted for all business expenses. Under this assumption the company’s profit margin is slightly above industry average, however the large losses seen previously leave room for improvement. I decided to dig deeper, beginning with net margin by month.
####  Upon looking at monthly net margins, January 2018 stood out. It was one of only two months in which there was a loss and the loss in January 2018 was significantly higher than the loss in the other month. I saw this as a good starting point to discover the potential causes of the losses I saw in my previous project. I then generated queries that allowed me to look at net margin from the highest level, regional, to the lowest level, individual orders. In doing this I was able to find some common themes that resulted in loss. For the analysis report I approached it from the perspective of creating a general overview in order to offer suggestions as to areas that warranted further analysis. I selected this approach because conducting a full-blown analysis would require more people and produce a significantly longer report than I thought was realistic for a fictitious company. 
#### With this project the queries required were very basic because the main purpose of the project was to write the analysis report. Due to the analysis report being a high-level overview there was no need for advanced queries or statistical analysis. I look forward to using the insights I gained while conducting the analysis report in future projects, possibly looking further in to the effects of Superstore's discounts.
## <a href="https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/tyrell.roberts/viz/NetMargin-CurrentProject/NetMarginOverview"> View Tableau Project Here!</a>      
